---
layout:     post
title:      "iOS 14: App Clips"
date:       2020-06-24 06:54:00
author:     "Daniel Vela"
header-img: "img/post-bg-04.jpg"
locale:       en
lang-ref:   app-clips
---

# App Clips

App clips allow a fast access to a part of a mobile app.

- [How to create an App Clip](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/app_clips/creating_an_app_clip)
- [Sample app: Fruta: Building a Feature-Rich App with SwiftUI](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swiftui/fruta_building_a_feature-rich_app_with_swiftui)

## Launchers

Launchers have an URL or a MFC tag, this way they can by launches with a NFC label or a QR code.

- NFC tag
- QR Code
- Siri location suggestion
- Safari App Banner
- Links in messages
- Place Cards in Maps
- Recentyly Used App Clips
- Email

## Characteristics

- 8-hour locations. App Clips can present a notification within the eight hours of the user launching the clip.
- Can check if the App Clip is checked by the user at an specific location.
- Can offer a button to install an app.

## HIG

[Human Interface Guidelines](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/app-clips/overview/)

- A simple app or fucntionality.

### Possible uses samples

- Cycle renting, a tag in the cycle can launch the App Clip.
- Ask for a coffe
- Launch a restauran menu from the Map app.
- Launch the film list of a cinema from the Map app.
- A museum can put tags near pictures to launch an App Clip with information.

### Desing principles

- Focus on the essential
- Don't use it for marketing purposes.
- Design a linear, easy and focused UI.
- On launch, show only the relevant.
- User must use the App clip inmediately.
- Small
- Allow to share hte App Clip (they are URL)
- Use Apple Pay
- Don't require user to create a account.
- Don't require the user to install a complete app.
- Require access to notifications if they are needed along time.
- Use more graphics than text.
- Simple verb for actions.

## Configuration

- App CLips require a complete app to upload it to the App Store Connect.
- Requires: a header image, a subtitle, a call-to-action.
- Add the URL that launch your app in the section *advanced app clip experiences* in the App Store Connect. And
    * nfc tags
    * pyshical location
    * multiple bussines to use.

## Frameworks NOT avialable to App Clips

- CallKit
- CareKit
- CloudKit
- HealthKit
- HomeKit
- ResearchKit
- SensorKit
- Speech

### Reserve some functionality to the main app

- Advanced networking features like Bonjour, or configuration of local Wi-Fi networks
- App extensions
- Customization and settings; for example, creation of a settings bundle
- Data handoff and document opening
- In-app purchases and in-app provisioning of payment cards
- Low-level Unix functionality; for example, BSD notifications
- Multiple scenes on iPad
- Registration of custom URL schemes
- Requests for user reviews of the app, using StoreKit’s requestReview(in:) method
- Searches for paired Bluetooth devices


## Code shortcut

    #if !APPCLIP
      // Code you don't want to use in your app clip.
    #else
      // Code your app clip may access.
    #endif

## Notiffications

- [Enabling Notifications in App Clips](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/app_clips/enabling_notifications_in_app_clips)

Is not needed to require user for permissions if the notification only is going to happen before next eight hours.

## Respond to invocation

- [Responding to Invocations](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/app_clips/responding_to_invocations)

    func respondTo(_ activity: NSUserActivity?) {
        
        // Guard against faulty data.
        guard activity != nil else { return }
        guard activity!.activityType != NSUserActivityTypeBrowsingWeb else { return }
        guard let incomingURL = activity?.webpageURL else { return }
        guard let components = NSURLComponents(url: incomingURL, resolvingAgainstBaseURL: true) else { return }
        
        // Update the user interface based on URL components passed to the app clip.
    }

## Tips

- With [SKOverlay](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/storekit/skoverlay) you can reommend the user to instal an app.
- [Safari App Banners](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/AppleApplications/Reference/SafariWebContent/PromotingAppswithAppBanners/PromotingAppswithAppBanners.html)
- [Share data with the main app using NSUserDefault](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/app_clips/making_data_available_to_the_app_clip_s_corresponding_app)

